{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23040\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs50 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Theories on how agents form expectations in ways deviating from rational expectation(RE) have proliferated over the past decade. This has been also accompanied by a welcoming recognition of the usefulness of surveys by macroeconomists in testing these theories empirically. On one hand, various theories built upon different micro- foundations produce somewhat similar macro patterns. For instance, the notion of expectation rigidity micro-founded by different theories mostly generates a sluggish response to new information. On the other hand, there are important and subtle differences in testable predictions from these theories for both individual forecasts and aggregate moments of the forecast. \
This paper extends this line of effort by bringing an additional moment of forecasts into perspective, i.e. the uncertainty. Existing work that studies expectation formation utilizing survey data mostly focus on the individual and cross-sectional patterns of the mean forecast of the variable. But there are additional insights from the forecast uncertainty, which is only available if each surveyee is asked to assign their own perceived probabilities to a range of values of the variable . For instance, the dispersion of uncertainty across individual forecasters, as that of the average forecasts, are inconsistent with the benchmark full-information rational expectation as the latter assumes that agents agree on the generating process of the data and have the common knowledge of available information. Dynamically, across different vintages of the forecast, the revision in uncertainty is a measure of information gain or the degree of forecasting efficiency. Besides, the relationship between uncertainty with other moments such as forecast errors and disagreements provides a way to check if the surveyed expectations are consistent with certain theories of expectation formation. Using these insights, the paper finds additional evidence from uncertainty consistent with the rigidity models. In the same time, the degree of rigidity appears to be shock-specific and bears the difference between households and professional forecasters. \
There are three major contributions of this paper. On the theoretical side, I explicitly derive the prediction of various theories of expectation formation about the dynamics of uncertainty. For instance, different theories that entail rigidities in incorporating new information predict the inefficiency in forecast revisions. This paper shows that this inefficiency can not only be seen in the average forecast, but also in the forecast uncertainty. This imposes additional restrictions on parametric configurations that produce the degree of rigidity seen in the data. Specifically, I find that the configurations of parameters in sticky expectation models are more realistic than that in noisy information theories. \
On the empirical side, the contribution is that we provide additional tests of the null of full-information rational expectation using the revision of uncertainty. I first replicate the results of tests based on forecast errors using microdata of households and professionals following the existing literature. Then, I undertake autoregression- based tests for revisions in mean forecasts and uncertainty, respectively. The new result from this paper is that the revision in uncertainty has a serial correlation that is not consistent with the level of forecast efficiency predicted by rational expectation. This provides an additional result that rejects the null of the rational expectation hypothesis. \
In addition, using externally identified shocks to inflation, i.e. productivity shocks, oil price shocks, and monetary policy shocks, I find evidence that the degree of rigidity is shock-specific. In particular, professionals seem to be responsive to monetary policy shocks, while households are more responsive to oil price shocks. Unlike testing the null-hypothesis, the externally identified shocks allow us to look into the dynamic impulse responses of different moments of expectations to the particular shock. This can be directly compared with the predictions of the theories. I follow the framework by \cf3 Coibion and Gorodnichenko \cf2 (\cf3 2012\cf2 ) while making two variations. First, I do not only examine the dynamics of forecast error, disagreement, but also the forecast uncertainty. Second, I include two monetary policy shocks, the shocks to current federal fund rates and future path of the federal funds rate. \
\
## Related literature \
This paper is related to four strands of literature. First, it is realted to a series of empirical work directly testing and evaluating various theories on expectations for- mation using survey data. For instance, \cf3 Mankiw et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2003\cf2 ), \cf3 Carroll \cf2 (\cf3 2003\cf2 ), \cf3 Branch \cf2 (\cf3 2004\cf2 ). More recent examples include \cf3 Coibion et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2018\cf2 ) on firms\'92 managers. In addition to testing particular sets of theories, there is also a number of papers that show people\'92s expectations are driven by idiosyncratic demographics, cognitive abilities and macroeconomic histories experienced(\cf3 Malmendier and Nagel \cf2 (\cf3 2015\cf2 ), \cf3 Das et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2017\cf2 ) and \cf3 D\'92Acunto et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2019\cf2 ), etc.). In terms of the methodology, this paper is closest to \cf3 Coibion and Gorodnichenko \cf2 (\cf3 2012\cf2 ) and \cf3 Fuhrer \cf2 (\cf3 2018\cf2 ). However, all of these studies simply rely upon point forecasts instead of density forecast or surveyed uncertainty. This is one theme on which this paper differs from the existing literature. \
Second, \cf3 Manski \cf2 (\cf3 2004\cf2 ), \cf3 Delavande et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2011\cf2 ), \cf3 Manski \cf2 (\cf3 2018\cf2 ) and many other papers have advocated long for eliciting probabilistic questions measuring subjective uncertainty in economic surveys. Although the initial suspicion concerning to people\'92s ability in understanding, using and answering probabilistic questions is understandable, \cf3 Bertrand and Mullainathan \cf2 (\cf3 2001\cf2 ) and other work have shown respondents have the consistent ability and willingness to assign a probability (or \'93percent chance\'94) to future events. \cf3 Armantier et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2017\cf2 ) have a thorough discussion on designing, experimenting and implementing the consumer expectation surveys to ensure the quality \
Third, by approximating subjective uncertainty directly from density responses, this paper contributes to the literature that develops and uses a variety of measures of uncertainty, especially in the macroeconomic context. There is a long tradition of approximating uncertainty by measures that are more directly available in survey data or that can be estimated by econometric methods. For instance, \cf3 Bachmann et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2013\cf2 ) use ex-ante disagreement and ex-post forecast errors computed from forecasters\'92 surveys as proxies of uncertainty. \cf3 Jurado et al. \cf2 (\cf3 2015\cf2 ) define the time-varying uncertainty as conditional volatility of the unforecastable component of a variable and estimate it using multiple macroeconomic series. \cf3 Binder \cf2 (\cf3 2017\cf2 ) approximate uncertainty from rounding in survey data based on the insights from cognitive literature. Besides, the text-based approach such as \cf3 Bloom \cf2 (\cf3 2009\cf2 ) constructs indices of policy uncertainty based on texts of newspaper reporting. Although these proxies are all meant to capture the notion of uncertainty, as shown in Section \cf3 3.2\cf2 , cross-validation seems to suggest they are statistically uncorrelated or even negatively correlated. \
Fourth, the literature that has been originally developed under the theme of forecast efficiency provides a framework analyzing the dynamics of uncertainty useful for the purpose of this paper. The focus of the forecasting efficiency literature is evaluating forecasters\'92 performance and improving forecasting methodology, but it can be adapted to test the theories of expectation formation of different types of agents. This is especially relevant to this paper as I focus on the uncertainty. \
\
}